.codex/skills/context-maintenance/SKILL.md, before:

---
name: context-maintenance
description: Maintain project documentation, agent knowledge, and methodology; keep routes consistent and remove duplication across the instruction framework.
---

# .codex/skills/context-maintenance/SKILL.md

## Name

`$context-maintenance`

## Purpose

Keep the instruction framework and project knowledge base accurate and consistent as decisions and workflows evolve.

This skill updates documentation, knowledge, and methodology only (AGENTS, routed knowledge docs, skills, slash commands, and project docs). It does not audit or modify product code.

## Blueprint location

- `KB_BEHAVIOUR_ARCHITECTURE`

## When to use

Invoke when any apply:

- a significant decision is made or approved that affects how we work or what we build
- the repo shape changes (top-level folder/service boundary/artifact category added, removed, or renamed)
- rules/routing/aliases are added, moved, or renamed
- a new routed doc, skill, or slash command is added (or one is modified)
- duplication/conflicts are suspected across AGENTS, routed docs, skills, or slash commands
- the user requests a documentation/knowledge/methodology maintenance pass

## Inputs

- Change summary (what triggered the maintenance run)
- Optional: affected areas (project docs, routed docs, skills, slash commands, AGENTS scopes)

## Procedure

1. Establish the maintenance scope
   - project state updates (context/plan/insights), framework updates, or both
2. Load the canonical sources
   - `KB_ROOTS`
   - `KB_BEHAVIOUR_ARCHITECTURE`
   - `KB_REPOSITORY_RULES`
   - `KB_REPOSITORY_LAYOUT`
   - `KB_PROJECT_DOC_MAINTENANCE`
3. Validate routing and references
   - every alias in `KB_ROOTS` points to an existing file
   - every referenced `KB_*` / `DOC_*` route used in instructions resolves via `KB_ROOTS`
4. Keep the repository layout index current
   - ensure `KB_REPOSITORY_LAYOUT` matches the repo shape after changes
   - update it when any apply:
     - a top-level folder is added/removed/renamed
     - a runtime boundary/service folder is added/removed/renamed
     - a new agent-artifact category is added under `ROOT_AGENTS_ARTIFACTS`
     - shared conventions are introduced (`shared/`, `scripts/`, `tests/`, `config/`)
5. Update the framework with correct layering
   - keep rules in AGENTS and scoped AGENTS only
   - keep knowledge in `ROOT_AGENTS_KNOWLEDGE` and referenced by route
   - keep procedures in `.codex/skills/` and slash commands, referencing routed docs instead of duplicating them
6. Remove duplication and resolve conflicts
   - if the same rule appears in multiple layers, keep it in the correct layer and replace others with a reference
   - if guidance conflicts, pick a single source of truth and update references accordingly
7. Update project documents when the decision/change affects project state
   - apply `KB_PROJECT_DOC_MAINTENANCE` to update `DOC_PROJECT_CONTEXT`, `DOC_PROJECT_ROADMAP`, `DOC_PROJECT_PROTECTED_CONTRACTS` (when relevant), and append to `DOC_PROJECT_INSIGHTS`
   - PRD sync rule:
     - If a Product PRD was created/updated, ensure `DOC_PROJECT_CONTEXT` and `DOC_PROJECT_ROADMAP` reflect it (product scope, baselines, and the derived backlog).
     - If the Product PRD user profile(s) were created/updated, ensure `DOC_PROJECT_CONTEXT` stays consistent about the intended primary users and constraints (high level).
     - If the Product PRD jobs-to-be-done were created/updated, ensure `DOC_PROJECT_CONTEXT` stays consistent about the primary job and the product positioning (high level).
     - If Feature PRDs were created/updated, ensure `DOC_PROJECT_ROADMAP` reflects the next feature work and links/notes are consistent with the Product PRD (no duplicated product-level decisions).
     - If the PRD methodology changed (templates, interview guide, rules), append a short entry to `DOC_PROJECT_INSIGHTS` so future work follows the same PRD workflow.
8. Ensure indices remain accurate
   - `DOC_SKILLS_LIST` reflects the current skills
   - No `ROOT_KNOWLEDGE_BASE/slash-commands/` folder exists in this repo (skills are the canonical entrypoint).
9. Report results
   - what changed, why, and any remaining follow-ups

## Outputs

- Issues found (with file paths)
- Proposed edits and moves
- Routing updates required

## Acceptance checks

- Routes resolve: `KB_ROOTS` aliases and referenced routes point to existing files
- No duplicated rules across layers (AGENTS vs routed docs vs skills vs slash commands)
- `KB_REPOSITORY_LAYOUT` matches the current repo shape when relevant changes occurred
- Project docs updated when decisions/features changed project state
- Skill and slash command indices are accurate

Commit message:

docs: normalize repo rules and finish cleanup

.codex/skills/context-maintenance/SKILL.md, after:

---
name: context-maintenance
description: Maintain project documentation, agent knowledge, and methodology; keep routes consistent and remove duplication across the instruction framework.
---

# .codex/skills/context-maintenance/SKILL.md

## Name

`$context-maintenance`

## Purpose

Keep the instruction framework and project knowledge base accurate and consistent as decisions and workflows evolve.

This skill updates documentation, knowledge, and methodology only (AGENTS, routed knowledge docs, skills, slash commands, and project docs). It does not audit or modify product code.

## Blueprint location

- `KB_BEHAVIOUR_ARCHITECTURE`

## When to use

Invoke when any apply:

- a significant decision is made or approved that affects how we work or what we build
- the repo shape changes (top-level folder/service boundary/artifact category added, removed, or renamed)
- rules/routing/aliases are added, moved, or renamed
- a new routed doc, skill, or slash command is added (or one is modified)
- duplication/conflicts are suspected across AGENTS, routed docs, skills, or slash commands
- the user requests a documentation/knowledge/methodology maintenance pass

## Inputs

- Change summary (what triggered the maintenance run)
- Optional: affected areas (project docs, routed docs, skills, slash commands, AGENTS scopes)

## Procedure

1. Establish the maintenance scope
   - project state updates (context/plan/insights), framework updates, or both
2. Load the canonical sources
   - `KB_ROOTS`
   - `KB_BEHAVIOUR_ARCHITECTURE`
   - `KB_REPOSITORY_RULES`
   - `KB_REPOSITORY_LAYOUT`
   - `KB_PROJECT_DOC_MAINTENANCE`
3. Validate routing and references
   - every alias in `KB_ROOTS` points to an existing file
   - every referenced `KB_*` / `DOC_*` route used in instructions resolves via `KB_ROOTS`
4. Keep the repository layout index current
   - ensure `KB_REPOSITORY_LAYOUT` matches the repo shape after changes
   - update it when any apply:
     - a top-level folder is added/removed/renamed
     - a runtime boundary/service folder is added/removed/renamed
     - a new agent-artifact category is added under `ROOT_AGENTS_ARTIFACTS`
     - shared conventions are introduced (`shared/`, `scripts/`, `tests/`, `config/`)
5. Update the framework with correct layering
   - keep rules in AGENTS and scoped AGENTS only
   - keep knowledge in `ROOT_AGENTS_KNOWLEDGE` and referenced by route
   - keep procedures in `.codex/skills/` and slash commands, referencing routed docs instead of duplicating them
6. Remove duplication and resolve conflicts
   - if the same rule appears in multiple layers, keep it in the correct layer and replace others with a reference
   - if guidance conflicts, pick a single source of truth and update references accordingly
7. Update project documents when the decision/change affects project state
   - apply `KB_PROJECT_DOC_MAINTENANCE` to update `DOC_PROJECT_CONTEXT`, `DOC_PROJECT_ROADMAP`, `DOC_PROJECT_PROTECTED_CONTRACTS` (when relevant), and append to `DOC_PROJECT_INSIGHTS`
   - PRD sync rule:
     - If a Product PRD was created/updated, ensure `DOC_PROJECT_CONTEXT` and `DOC_PROJECT_ROADMAP` reflect it (product scope, baselines, and the derived backlog).
     - If the Product PRD user profile(s) were created/updated, ensure `DOC_PROJECT_CONTEXT` stays consistent about the intended primary users and constraints (high level).
     - If the Product PRD jobs-to-be-done were created/updated, ensure `DOC_PROJECT_CONTEXT` stays consistent about the primary job and the product positioning (high level).
     - If Feature PRDs were created/updated, ensure `DOC_PROJECT_ROADMAP` reflects the next feature work and links/notes are consistent with the Product PRD (no duplicated product-level decisions).
     - If the PRD methodology changed (templates, interview guide, rules), append a short entry to `DOC_PROJECT_INSIGHTS` so future work follows the same PRD workflow.
8. Ensure indices remain accurate
   - `DOC_SKILLS_LIST` reflects the current skills
   - No `ROOT_KNOWLEDGE_BASE/slash-commands/` folder exists in this repo (skills are the canonical entrypoint).
9. Update user-facing workflow docs when workflow changes
   - If you add/change a skill that a user might run directly, update `docs/application-development-guide.md` so a beginner can follow it.
   - For skills that scaffold folders or reset templates, document:
     - the entry command/skill name
     - where the config lives (prefer skill-local `assets/`)
     - what gets excluded and what gets reset
10. Report results
   - what changed, why, and any remaining follow-ups

## Outputs

- Issues found (with file paths)
- Proposed edits and moves
- Routing updates required

## Acceptance checks

- Routes resolve: `KB_ROOTS` aliases and referenced routes point to existing files
- No duplicated rules across layers (AGENTS vs routed docs vs skills vs slash commands)
- `KB_REPOSITORY_LAYOUT` matches the current repo shape when relevant changes occurred
- Project docs updated when decisions/features changed project state
- Skill and slash command indices are accurate
